This morning we're going to discuss the thought of keeping the belt of truth tight around our
wastes.
Now why is that so important?
Well we see in the world today there's just no end to the misinformation, the lies,
the falsehoods that are being spread.
But in addition to that, as Jehovah's people, we face all sorts of verbal attacks, don't
worry, people accusing us of horrific things.
And this can be very discouraging.
So that's why we need to make sure that we've got the belt of truth firmly around our waste
tight.
But how can we tighten it?
Well of course there are many different ways that we can reassure ourselves of the truth.
But this morning I thought we might talk about just one thing that may help us.
And that is to go back to the basics.
From time to time to think about this question, what was it that convinced me or my family
that this is the truth?
And if we meditate on that, it can help to strengthen our resolve to continue in the
truth.
And in this way, figuratively speaking, it's as if we tighten the belt.
We all know those of us that wear belts, you need a tight belt for it to be effective.
Now with that in mind, if ever you visit me in my office, you'll notice that I have two
things that from time to time I'll look at.
One is this publication.
Now when you look at it, you might say the same as my wife did a few days ago, don't you
have a better copy of that addition?
It's not really looking so good.
So why is this in my collection of books in the office?
Well because this is the book, let God be true, that my mother started studying in 1956
when she was contacted in the door to door work.
Now I have a connection to this because at that time I was 18 months old.
And as you can see in the front, I had no potential whatsoever of being in the writing department
or the art department.
But I guess it did prove that an early age I was interested in books.
Anyway, this book is close to my heart because it helped my mother at a time when she faced
some opposition.
She just started using this book when a minister from the Methodist Church and a missionary
came along to her house to try to force her to stop studying with Jehovah's Witnesses.
Now what did they do?
Well they berated the witnesses, they said all sorts of falsehoods and they said everything
they could, there was negative about Jehovah's Witnesses.
Once they left, my mother said that she felt very discouraged and disheartened after being
the victim of this verbal abuse.
So what did she do?
She took her King James Bible and turned it to a scripture that she had just studied
in paragraph 5 of this book in the first chapter.
Maybe you'd like to read it with me if you would.
If you have a electronic device, you have an advantage this morning because I'd like
you to turn to the book of Isaiah chapter 8 and verse 20.
But I'd like you to read it from the King James version.
So Isaiah chapter 8 verse 20.
And if you tap on the verse 20, you'll see the King James version may come up.
It says to the law and to the testimony.
If they speak not according to this word, it is because there is no light in them.
Now that touched her heart and helped her to make the decision to continue on studying.
Now if you're like me, you're probably trying to work out what is the testimony, what's
this all about.
And if you look at the revised text of the New World Transition in verse 20, it helps
us, doesn't it?
There it says, instead, they should inquire of the law and of the written confirmation.
When they do not speak according to this word, they have no light.
So she realized that these two who had come to visit her did not show her anything from
the scriptures.
Rather, they just said what they felt about your harvest witnesses.
So that helped her because she realized, as the Let God be true, book says in chapter
1, that everything we will leave about God needs to be based on the Word of God, the Bible.
In other words, written confirmation.
So that's the first lesson, the first point that is a good reminder to me personally.
No matter what people say about us, no matter what negative comments are made, we can always
take comfort in the thought that our beliefs are solidly based on the Bible.
Now the second thing that you may notice in my office is this watch out magazine.
It's from February 15, 1955.
If I'm not in my office and you see it, you may think, ah, he's got that there because
he was born just a couple of weeks after this.
No, that's not the reason it's there.
The reason is that this was the second thing that helped my mother to take a stand for
the truth.
There were two beautiful articles in this watch out.
The first one was entitled Only One Right Religion and notice how it starts off.
If you pay for wheat, will you settle for straw?
If you buy wine, will you accept water?
Or if you thirst for water, will you be satisfied with mud?
What if someone came to prove that you were being defrauded in these ways?
Would you be angry with him or with the one who was cheating you?
What a great start to the article.
And then it went on to show how the truth of God's word is being taught by Jehovah's
people today.
But there's a second scripture that was in this magazine that really helped my mother.
So if you'd like to turn with me to the book of Jeremiah, Jeremiah chapter 23.
Now in the context of this, we're going to read verses 28 and 29.
But in the previous verses, it mentions false prophets.
Those who tell lies, who are dreaming and they try to explain their dreams.
And verse 27 says, these are the same ones who teach people or intend to make them forget
my name.
So what does verse 28 and 29 say?
Let the prophet, who has a dream, relate his dream.
But the one who has my word should speak my word truthfully.
What does the straw have in common with the grain, the class Jehovah?
You see how the watched our article was tied in there about grain and straw?
But the point being that we need to speak God's word truthfully.
Now the second article in this magazine, which is equally good, helps persons to see the
need to select the true religion.
It says choosing the one right religion.
In this article, it raises the point that sometimes people say, well, I just don't have time
to investigate all the religions in the world.
How can I find the truth?
It's just like trying to find a needle in a haystack.
Well this magazine, building on what was said in Jeremiah, said, well, if you go to a haystack
looking for a needle, you don't have to look at every straw in a haystack.
Actually, they recommend quite a radical move, burn the haystack and then with a magnet
you can find the needle.
Now what's the point?
Well as it goes on to say, you see as Jeremiah said, God's word is like a fire.
You see in verse 29, it says, a fire that consumes a rubbish.
So we don't have to go around investigating all the various teachings of different religions
that would be like a huge haystack.
But rather, when we study the Bible and we see the pure truth in the Scriptures, then
we can identify anything that's virtually rubbish or straw and we have the real thing.
Yes, that helps to really convince us that we have the truth because if people don't
even know Jehovah's name, why would we believe them?
And if they believe that people are going to hellfire, why would we believe everything
that they say, particularly if they're criticizing Jehovah's people?
So what about you?
What was it that convinced you that you found the truth?
Well, it's good from time to time to think about that question.
In my case, I think of those things that my mother taught me.
The first one from the book of Isaiah, to make sure that what we believe is based on the
Bible.
And then the second thing, we don't have to investigate every story that's told to us.
Once we have the truth from the Bible, we can recognize what's right and what's wrong.
Yes, we don't need to listen to the father of the lie, but we certainly believe in the
God of Truth.